What are we going to achieve?
By end of this chapter?
We have application running in Kubernetes.
That application is saying Hello Docker, and the magic starts happening when you change the code and
push it to GitHub.
As soon as you commit the changes, a Jenkins job gets submitted automatically, builds a new image,
pushes the new image to Docker Hub, changes the deployment file with the latest image ID.
The new image automatically gets deployed to the Kubernetes cluster using GitHub apps, and our application
starts pointing to the new pod.
Topics we are going to cover in this chapter are Gitops what is it and why do we need it?
Then we're going to go over the real world gitops workflow for the demo along with the difference with
traditional DevOps workflow.
Then we are going to go over the Docker file and Jenkins file for the demo Jenkins installation Jenkins
Jobs set up.
Then we are going to install our Gitops tool, which is Argo CD, Argo CD set up for the application,
then automating GitHub to Jenkins using webhook and finally zero touch end to end, which is the state
of Nirvana.
A couple of things to keep in mind before we get started.
I decided to add this GitHub chapter to the course because from my day to day work in the field with
a lot of customers, I'm seeing that Gitops is getting very popular.
I anticipate Gitops replacing part of traditional DevOps this year and next year.
That's why I want you folks to get ahead of the curve by lining it up.
Secondly, we are going to use Jenkins as part of this real world demo note that Jenkins is a separate
code by itself, so we are not going to go over the basics and how Jenkins components work, but I'm
going to go over how to install Jenkins and how to set up the jobs.
All right.
With those things in mind, let's get started.